---
layout: post
title:  "Đà Lạt city of flowers"
date:	2014-02-25 08:07:04
---

We got up at 4:00 AM to get our taxi to the airport. As we were waiting outside the hotel we noticed a girl that wore a traditional clothing and it seemed that she was also waiting for a taxi. She was a flight attendant from Vietnam Airlines, the same airline we were going to fly to Đà Lạt with. So we thought it would be really nice to befriend a flight attendant on our flight. We shared a taxi with her to the airport but unfortunately she was in another flight to Hong Kong but it was a fun taxi ride anyhow. A little bit of smalltalk is never wrong.

Our flight was not fully booked so we got to sit in one row each. Unfortunately the flight was only 40 minutes so as soon as the seat belt signs turned off they turned on again after 5 minutes as we were going to descent for landing. The Đà Lạt airport is so small, that you have to walk over the runways after landing so we took some badass pictures in front of an Airbus A320 because no one seemed to care that we came so close to the airplanes.

We took the bus to Đà Lạt and checked in at a very nice hotel we found on tripadvisor. The hotel also offered to rent motorbikes so because the traffic was not so heavy in Đà Lạt I decided to go for it and practice my driving skills there to be ready for Hà Nội traffic when we get back.

With the motorbikes we went through the mountainous roads and beautiful landscape to Thác Prenn waterfalls. To our disappointment we had to find out that the waterfalls were closed for the day so we decided to come back the day after and headed back to Đà Lạt to visit the night market. The night market in Đà Lạt was like no other market I was on in my life. A lot of market stalls with vegetables, clothing and other stuff. Every merchant was yelling what I first thought was what they were selling but they are yelling their prices. If you want to check out what they are selling for that price you have to go look for yourself.

After the night market we followed our habit of ending the day with a nice cup of coffee. I really like the vietnamese coffee and how it is served. The coffee is so good that I bought some coffee beans to bring to germany. I am already looking forward to have a nice cup of vietnamese coffee at home on my balcony on some warm summer nights.