---
layout: post
title:  "Welcome to Vietnam!"
date:   2014-02-21 16:23:23
---

The long awaited journey to Vietnam has now become reality and I'm writing my first blog post as I'm lying in bed letting my first impressions pass by. For the next 3 weeks I'm going to live at various places in Vietnam but my journey begins in Hà Nội. Thanh, a good friend of mine agreed to take me to the country he was born and raised in to show me the beauty and diversity of it. I am very thankful to have this opportunity and want to share with you my impressions over the course of our journey as we travel through the country.

After a ten hour flight we arrived at Hà Nội Airport this morning. As we left the airplane Thanh warned me that the humidity might be a bit uncomfortable at first. I recognized the increased humidity but it wasn't uncomfortable at all. At this time of the year, right after the vietnamese traditional new year, the temperatures in the north of Vietnam are in the 20 °C range and feel not much different than the early spring temperatures in Germany.
We headed through the Passport control right to the baggage claim where we awaited approximately 200 kg worth of baggage. You heard right, 200 kg. I had only around 20 kg. As it turns out, vietnamese people really like to get gifts from other vietnamese people that were travelling abroad. I don't know if it is especially from Germany but a lot of travellers in our plane brought induction cooking plates with them. Even the pilot carried one away. Thanh had three of them and a lot of other stuff he brought along for his relatives.

After we hauled everything on four baggage carts we went to the exit where his father awaited us. We packed everything in the car and drove to his home. It was only a 20 km drive but we needed an hour to arrive there. On this drive I had the honour to experience the world famous vietnamese traffic for the first time. Although we travelled by car, which feels much safer than by motorbike, it was still a quite impressive ride. The traffic in Vietnam is very different from the traffic in Germany. Even though we drove on an equivalent of a German Autobahn the speed indicator never went over 50 km/h. As we went further into the cities center, the traffic got more crowded. You hear a lot of honking on the streets but in most cases this honking only means "hey I'm behind you, please be aware of this". Everyone seems to subtly ignore all the honking but in some way this is part of the flow and everyone still seems to be subconsciously aware of everyone else on the street. I don't think that without such subconscious awareness things like crossing the street by foot even when there is heavy traffic or by motorbike if you just bought something from the store from one side of the road and want to get back into the flow on the opposite side.

Long before we actually flew to Vietnam i asked myself how to properly greet people in Vietnam. I did not want to do anything wrong. Some countries have complex greeting codecs and I wanted to be prepared. During the flight I asked Thanh how to do it right. When there are older people living in the house, greet them first. In addition to that you have to have a rough idea who you are speaking with to say the correct greeting. Male or female? How old are they? The most relevant part is the word Chào that is almost exactly pronounced as the italian word ciao. If you talk to a woman around the age of 45 you say Chào bà. A man in his fifties is greeted by saying Chào ông. Chào em is the term to use if you want to greet a younger person or a child. If in doubt just say Chào.

After meeting the rest of the family including Thanhs mother, his younger sister and their dog, a young Phu Quoc Ridgeback, they showed me the house and finally my room. After a quick rest Thanhs mother cooked us a soup with noodles, beef and a vegetable I didn't know which looked a bit like spinach. It tasted really good and all theses pseudo asian noodle dishes you get outside of Vietnam are nothing compared to a good breakfast cooked from a vietnamese mother.

To get my first vietnamese Đồng we had to find an ATM which accepted my VISA credit card. To find an ATM meant we had to drive through Hà Nội via motorbike. You know what that means. I was a bit scared to get back into the traffic I described before but this time without the comforting crumple zone of a car. Walking would be too time consuming so I had no choice other to get on the back of Thanhs motorbike. If you trust the traffic flow and especially your driver it is much easier to overcome the first fear. For now I had two choices. Either close my eyes and wait until we arrive at an ATM or enjoy the view of this interestingly agile and interesting society from the back of the motorbike. I chose the latter. We found an ATM and the first time of my life I became a millionaire. I withdrew my first 1M Đồng which are roughly 34€. They do not last as long as 1M € but here you can get a lot for 1M Đồng. A part from my first millions bought me a vietnamese SIM card and a very important breathing protection mask which you definitely need if you participate in vietnamese traffic because of the exhaust fumes of all the motorbikes and cars on the street.

In the afternoon we went to a very nice café to meet with an old highschool friend of Thanh. The café is near the german embassy and is called [Cong caphe](http://congcaphe.com/). The interior decoration is reminiscent of a typical 70s to 80s vietnamese flat with a lot of nostalgic furniture, pictures and dishes.
I did not know what to choose from the menu so I got the recommendation from Thanhs' highschool friend which was a ----. It is a sweet coffee roughly the size of an espresso whith coconut milk and sugar. I'm not that much into coffee but this small thing was really good. I think this was defenitely not the last --- I drank here.

I think I call it a day and get some sleep because there is a lot ahead of us. We planned trips to ... ... ... ... and ... And I think it is also a great honour to be invited to some family gatherings including two vietnamese weddings. So expect a lot more to come in the next three weeks.

ADDING SOME PICTURES TOMORROW